---
layout: minutes
date: 2024-04-17
title: Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — 2024-04-17
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2024-04-17-vcwg",
        "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2024-04-17",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2024-04-17",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2024-04-17",
            "endDate": "2024-04-17",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Manu Sporny"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Mahmoud Alkhraishi"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Hiroyuki Sano"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Przemek Praszczalek"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2024-04-17

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/3c7f5c66-5e34-468a-837e-2c2bf12de748/20240417T110000/) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2024/04/17-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Brent Zundel, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Hiroyuki Sano, Dave Longley, Manu Sporny, Przemek Praszczalek, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Benjamin Young

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Manu Sporny, Mahmoud Alkhraishi

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Draft Charter.
{: #section1}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://w3c.github.io/vc-wg-charter/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-wg-charter/).

**Brent Zundel:** draft of charter has minimal feedback on it. We expect to have it ready to submit within 1-2 weeks.  

**Ivan Herman:** What we would do is to submit it to a strategy team at W3C, which means it will have to go through a horizontal review and other process, before it gets to the AC, in other words, any feedback from working group members are still welcome.  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to passing it off to the strategy team.

**Ivan Herman:** only thing i need a green light for is to start the process, since charter ends at end of june, so we may need to get an extension of a few weeks.  
… how i would frame is, which is the truth, is that the changes are minimal. The major change is that the list of recommendations were "drafty" and now they would be in CR. so hopefully it'll be fast.  

**Brent Zundel:** I have not seen any reason to delay, i think we're good to proceed.  

**Ivan Herman:** then i'll do it this week.  

### 2. TPAC.
{: #section2}

**Brent Zundel:** assuming new charter proceeds as expected, we should be meeting as a group at TPAC in LA this fall.  

### 3. VCDM Work Items.
{: #section3}

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls).

**Manu Sporny:** VCDM updates, number of PRs merged, there is still a big issue that needs to be addressed.  

#### 3.1. Update media types to `application/vc` and `application/vp` (pr vc-data-model#1478)
{: #section3-1}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1478](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1478)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1478 -->



**Manu Sporny:** there is a new PR around media types, this PR updates media types to just applications/vc and applications/vp.  
… lots of stuff didn't need to change, the other language is already in the spec, so it seems simple and straightforward.  
… should I kick off preliminary registration? in IETF you can do preliminary and then do final when you hit CR.  
… should we do this to indicate direction?  

**Ivan Herman:** I personally would prefer to do that if/when we merge this PR as that would signal this is really where the WG wants to go.  

> *Brent Zundel:* +1 to ivan's recommended timing.

> *Mahmoud Alkhraishi:* +1.

**Manu Sporny:** will raise the IANA provisional registration early next week.  

### 4. Bitstring Work Items.
{: #section4}

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pulls).

**Manu Sporny:** for Bitstring status list, all the PRs have been merged, I mentioned on the mailing list that CR ready draft has been prepared.  
… Ivan saw your email about the slight editorial changes, we seem to be ready to go to CR, might have some small editorial but we're in a good shape to do a proposal next week.  
… I saw your email Ivan saw your email about the slight editorial changes, we seem to be ready to go to CR, might have some small editorial but we're in a good shape to do a proposal next week.  
… I think we're in good shape there to take Bitstring status list to go to CR with a vote next week.  
… Data Integrity and 3 crypto suite specs have PRs that are sitting out there for a while now, will continue processing as time permits, nothing big happening on those specs.  

### 5. CR Publication timing.
{: #section5}

**Ivan Herman:** as you may have realized we have not received the Jose/cose CR approval yet, I was hoping to have it this friday and to publish next week. The only issue is that I am off in 2 and a half weeks, so would need someone to pickup the admin slack but i'm hoping jose-cose will be out.  
… jose cose will hopefully be done by then, if we do the vote next week i can submit it to review during that week, would not expect review to happen the week after, so we might have comments from reviewers during my week in Budapest, so should not be a real problem.  

**Brent Zundel:** sounds like a wait and see, and if theres any issues we'll tackle it.  
… calling it a meeting, thank you all!  

---
