---
layout: minutes
date: 2024-03-06
title: Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — 2024-03-06
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2024-03-06-vcwg",
        "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2024-03-06",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2024-03-06",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2024-03-06",
            "endDate": "2024-03-06",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jennie Meier"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Paul Dietrich"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dmitri Zagidulin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Michael Jones"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gabe Cohen"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Przemek Praszczalek"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2024-03-06

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/3c7f5c66-5e34-468a-837e-2c2bf12de748/20240306T110000/) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2024/03/06-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Brent Zundel, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Jennie Meier, Paul Dietrich, Benjamin Young, Dave Longley, Manu Sporny, Dmitri Zagidulin, Joe Andrieu, Michael Jones, Gabe Cohen, Przemek Praszczalek

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Benjamin Young

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Brent Zundel:** Welcome. The agenda is straightforward. Status updates, pull requests, and then issues on the core data model.  
… anyone have changes or additions?  

**Manu Sporny:** just 2 announcements about upcoming maintenance deadlines.  
… as folks know, we made a call for DID and VC registries.  

> *Manu Sporny:* Volunteer list is here: [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-wg/2024Mar/0005.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-wg/2024Mar/0005.html).

**Manu Sporny:** we need volunteers, and did a training video, collected github handles, etc.  
… these folks are all more than qualified to maintain the registries.  
… and they've mostly signed up for both.  
… we sent an email out to get confirmation from the group on the list of volunteers.  
… next Tuesday is the deadline to object.  

### 1. Work Item Status Updates/PRs.
{: #section1}

**Brent Zundel:** any comments on volunteering?  
… ok. status updates. Please queue up if you have updates.  

**Manu Sporny:** for Data Integrity, all the specs are aligned with Jeffrey Yaskin's cryptosuite interface proposal.  
… it was a major change, so we need to go through another CR.  
… no negative feedback from implementers.  
… for BBS, we can go into CR by next week (in theory).  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-di-bbs/](https://github.com/w3c/vc-di-bbs/).

**Manu Sporny:** Greg still has some pending PRs.  
… once those are in we'll cut a pre-CR and do a call for consensus.  
… ivan, I don't know what the timing would be. This is just a heads up that this is nearly ready for a vote.  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abefore-CR](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abefore-CR).

**Manu Sporny:** Bitstring Status List can be ready for a vote to got into CR early next month.  
… we have asked PING to review prior to CR...still waiting on confirmation.  
… we have had reviews done and other reviews will timeout in mid-April.  
… the big thing we need is what the Traceability group is doing with status list.  
… but we need more engagement specifically from Transmute and Mesure.io.  
… we have a plan for what we can do with it, but we need implementer feedback from the Traceability cohort.  
… the VCDM has a few changes related to requests from the Activity Pub folks.  
… but the standing issues seem to be nearly resolved.  
… there's a normative change about "enveloped" Verifiable Presentations.  
… just to be clear, the VCDM can now carry _any_ payload of _any_ media type.  
… which means it could hold other forms of credentials, mDoc, etc.  
… there's a clear story around how this can be done.  
… I think this achieves the "big tent" approach we've been aiming at.  
… the rest of everything seems to be editorial.  
… what we're targeting is a May timeframe for VCDM.  
… and we may be able to push it up a bit.  

**Ivan Herman:** do we want to talk about CR timing now?  

**Brent Zundel:** now's good.  

**Ivan Herman:** for the March date, we have to take into consideration that the timing lines up with Good Friday, which means one of our reviewers will be on vacation.  
… and the 5th of April is a publication moratorium due to the AC meeting in Japan.  
… so if we can't get this request in by next week or the beginning of the week of the 18th, then it won't happen in March.  
… additional difficulty is that from March 22-26 I will be out of town.  

**Manu Sporny:** sounds like we should shoot for the 18th of March.  

**Ivan Herman:** when would the WG get together? the 13th? next week?  

**Manu Sporny:** I can check with Greg to see if he has anything else that needs to go in.  
… otherwise, I think we can do it by next week.  
… it's all stuff that's already in the spec, just some of it will become normative.  
… most of it has been there for weeks or even months.  
… we can set the publication for the 21st.  

**Ivan Herman:** I admire your optimism. If we vote on the 13th, we'd need an approval by the 15th--2 days later--and that seems unlikely.  

**Manu Sporny:** when's the better day?  

**Ivan Herman:** the 26th or the 28th.  

**Manu Sporny:** 28th? would that work?  
… that would be for BBS or JOSE/COSE? or both?  

**Ivan Herman:** the difference between one or two is marginal, so having both together would be best.  

**Manu Sporny:** I'll work with Greg to prep for a vote on the 13th.  
… we'll target a publication date of the 28th.  

**Brent Zundel:** Gabe or Mike Jones, any updates on JOSE/COSE.  

**Michael Jones:** we have no open PRs.  
… but we do have some issues.  

#### 1.1. Algorithms are poorly defined / unimplementable (issue vc-jose-cose#206)
{: #section1-1}

_See github issue [vc-jose-cose#206](https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/issues/206)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-jose-cose/206 -->



**Michael Jones:** 206 is about the verification algorithm.  
… but manu's already mentioned that all the specs are doing the right thing in terms of algorithm.  

**Manu Sporny:** I wasn't referring to JOSE/COSE, just the Data Integrity specs.  
… I think the editors of JOSE/COSE should figure out if the new interfaces apply for create and verify.  
… I'm checking to see what Jeffrey wrote about this earlier.  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/#securing-mechanism-specifications](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/#securing-mechanism-specifications).

**Manu Sporny:** section 5.13 securing mechanism specifications.  
… I don't know if the VC JOSE/COSE spec does the things that section requires.  
… it must provide a verification method that only contains the data in the document.  
… there are a bunch of other requirements for embedded proofs.  
… but no real requirements for enveloping proofs.  
… it's up to the editors to decide if they've hit that bar.  
… and the group to agree or not.  

**Michael Jones:** brent, this is assigned to you, do you want to keep it.  

**Brent Zundel:** yes. I'll keep it.  

**Gabe Cohen:** we have a section on this, but the rendering is broken.  

**Brent Zundel:** I'll look at that as well.  

**Manu Sporny:** there's a bulleted list in the issue I made. I've not seen responses.  
… I'll not block this going into CR, but without these changes it's likely to get formally rejected.  
… so, going through the list and explaining how they're addressed should help avoid the formal objection and close that issue.  

**Michael Jones:** you mean the one from December?  

**Manu Sporny:** yes.  

**Brent Zundel:** I'll tackle this.  
… anything else about JOSE/COSE?  

**Michael Jones:** decentralgabe has the other issues.  

**Gabe Cohen:** I plan to do both this week.  

> *Michael Jones:* The three vc-jose-cose before-CR issues are [https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abefore-CR](https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abefore-CR).

**Brent Zundel:** if all three of these are addressed with PRs, it's theoretically possible we could vote next week...but that seems really tight.  

**Michael Jones:** no opinion on timing, ivan's the expert.  

### 2. VCDM Issue Processing.
{: #section2}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+-label%3Afuture+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+-label%3Afuture+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

#### 2.1. What does the hash values in §B.2 mean? (issue vc-data-model#1442)
{: #section2-1}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1442](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1442)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1442 -->



**Michael Jones:** oh, this is before PR, so we'll skip it for now.  

**Brent Zundel:** 1442 is assigned to ivan.  

**Manu Sporny:** just to provide some input.  
… ivan asked about posting the canonical hash.  
… what we want is for people to retrieve something from the Web, and pass it through a library to get the hash.  
… telling people to have something special on hand to tell if the doc is valid is not what we want.  
… using a format they can read, SHA it, and compare would be better.  
… we could add hashes for every serialization, but that feels like a bit much.  
… we do want to update our ReSpec extension to generate these hashes at publication time.  

**Ivan Herman:** it was already clear back then that the hash is the representation of the JSON-LD of the vocabulary.  

**Manu Sporny:** yes.  

**Ivan Herman:** depending on conneg, you may get other formats.  
… it's not clear enough that the hash is specifically for the `application/ld+json` representation.  

**Manu Sporny:** I thought we had examples of how to recreate the hashes.  

**Ivan Herman:** it's there, but it's still not clear.  
… make it clear. should only be a few words.  

**Brent Zundel:** currently this is assigned to you, ivan.  

**Ivan Herman:** I can make a PR.  

#### 2.2. Define `verification material` find replace `public keys` (issue vc-data-model#1197)
{: #section2-2}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1197](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1197)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1197 -->



**Manu Sporny:** thank you ivan!  

**Brent Zundel:** moving on to 1197.  
… Nick Steele agreed to do the work, but he's not been on the calls.  

**Manu Sporny:** I can take this one.  

**Brent Zundel:** need any clarity from the group?  

**Manu Sporny:** nope. pretty straightforward.  

#### 2.3. Authorized Presenters (issue vc-data-model#1359)
{: #section2-3}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1359](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1359)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1359 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1359.  
… decentralgabe this is assigned to you.  

**Gabe Cohen:** I still think it'd be helpful for this to be described in the spec.  
… when you're going to make a VP, how can you be sure that the entity presenting it is authorized to present it.  
… so we avoid anyone presenting it to anyone.  

**Manu Sporny:** +1. I do think we can point to the confidence method spec.  
… the only concern I have is that the spec hasn't been touched in awhile.  
… I do think we plan to revisit it in a future WG, but not sure we want to talk about it before then.  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* having a VC property for "authorized presenters" seems a fine extension, but what to do with it feels like business logic.

**Manu Sporny:** we could talk about matching DIDs and comparing crypto related to those at each layer.  
… it's really when you want to connect it to a additional binding mechanisms that you'd want confidence method to come in.  

**Brent Zundel:** a full treatment of this seems too much to handle right now.  

> *Manu Sporny:* I agree with Brent's overall analysis. What can we do editorially for this?

**Brent Zundel:** what aspect of this would fit right now, is my question to decentralgabe.  
… we've got general interest in closing this, but we should narrow in on a specific recommendation.  

**Gabe Cohen:** I'd like to see non-normative text about it that could later be made normative.  
… it would at least help nudge people toward the future.  

**Brent Zundel:** is this something you can do?  

**Gabe Cohen:** yes, but it's lower priority.  

**Brent Zundel:** I will note you assigned it to yourself in December, and it's still yours to do.  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** I'm still very unclear how confidence method applies to who's presenting.  
… it does feel reasonable to say "these are my authorized presenters", but how to enforce that feels like business logic to me.  

> *Manu Sporny:* I agree with Ted's analysis.

> *Gabe Cohen:* will attempt some language, looking forward to it being torn apart :).

**Michael Jones:** how do you see this list interacting with proof of possession binding?  

**Gabe Cohen:** that's one option, but there be situations where that's not present.  

**Michael Jones:** just wanted to note they were related.  

#### 2.4. Section title and contents mismatch on "Complex Language Markup" (issue vc-data-model#1254)
{: #section2-4}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1254](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1254)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1254 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1254 is about complex language markup.  
… this was pending close.  
… we got a comment that if the title is adjusted, that would better apply or reflect the content.  
… sounds like a simple change.  

**Manu Sporny:** I'll take it.  
… and just try to work with title, since Sebastian's no longer with us.  
… I'll provide a PR and we can talk about it there.  

#### 2.5. first example contains an http url identifying a credential (issue vc-data-model#1432)
{: #section2-5}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1432](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1432)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1432 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1432.  
… this is assigned to decentralgabe. Do you need input?  

**Gabe Cohen:** could I state that public URLs for credentials is a Bad Thing, and suggest we recommend URNs would be better.  

> *Dave Longley:* it might be a bad idea for "personal credentials" (credentials about people).

**Manu Sporny:** I think we should not do that, but state that it's nuanced.  
… there are all sorts of credentials that should use the ID.  
… and many that should not state an ID--when they're for private individuals, etc.  
… we may want to put this in the Privacy section--and it may already be covered.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to what the credential is about should be a strong consideration on what ID/what kinds of IDs you might use.

> *Gabe Cohen:* +1 Manu, understood.

**Paul Dietrich:** we do use resolvable URIs for public credentials.  
… if it's PII, then there are reasons not o.  
… but there are certainly reasons to use public URIs.  
… and I do think it's already in the Privacy section.  

**Michael Jones:** there are cases where we use these, and without them key discovery breaks.  

**Brent Zundel:** did that help?  

**Gabe Cohen:** yes. I'll incorporate it into a PR.  

#### 2.6. `expires` header for https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1 is in the past (issue vc-data-model#1239)
{: #section2-6}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1239](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1239)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1239 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1239...did we decide about this one? ivan ?  

**Ivan Herman:** I proposed we delay this one.  
… the transcript of the meeting is inconclusive.  

**Brent Zundel:** I think this one's OK to ignore for now.  
… anyone object?  

#### 2.7. Define what a credential validity does mean (issue vc-data-model#1176)
{: #section2-7}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1176](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1176)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1176 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1176 define what credential validity means?  
… JoeAndrieu ?  

**Joe Andrieu:** ...still need to get to it, sorry.  

**Brent Zundel:** if there still isn't a PR in the next few weeks, we will need to close it.  

#### 2.8. Non-normative changes from Jeffrey Yasskin's review (issue vc-data-model#1348)
{: #section2-8}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1348](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1348)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1348 -->



**Joe Andrieu:** understood.  

**Brent Zundel:** 1348.  

**Manu Sporny:** this ones mine. It'll take a few days, but I should be able to do it.  

#### 2.9. Unnecessary direction attribute? (issue vc-data-model#1424)
{: #section2-9}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1424](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1424)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1424 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1424 unnecessary direction attribute.  

**Ivan Herman:** there's a PR for that one.  
… and it's been merged. So lets close it.  

#### 2.10. Explain that natural language examples are illustrative (issue vc-data-model#1192)
{: #section2-10}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1192](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1192)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1192 -->



_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1449](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1449)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1449 -->



**Brent Zundel:** excellent!  
… 1192.  
… has a PR, 1449...still open.  

**Manu Sporny:** the rest of the list have PRs.  

**Brent Zundel:** we'll go through them one by one.  
… PR1449 looks ready for merging this week.  

#### 2.11. Multiple Credential Status Lists (issue vc-data-model#1291)
{: #section2-11}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1291](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1291)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1291 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1291.  

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1450](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1450)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1450 -->



**Brent Zundel:** PR1450 covers this one. several approvals.  
… can be merged this week.  
… please take a look at it.  

#### 2.12. Specify what kind of processing is safe on a returned document (issue vc-data-model#1388)
{: #section2-12}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1388](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1388)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1388 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1388.  

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1451](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1451)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1451 -->



**Brent Zundel:** PR1451 covers this one. Has lots of conversation and approvals.  
… please review.  

#### 2.13. Tell a bit more about `verificationMethod` type schema (issue vc-data-model#1274)
{: #section2-13}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1274](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1274)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1274 -->



_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1452](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1452)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1452 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1274, PR1452 - large number of approvals, ready to be merged.  

#### 2.14. EnvelopedVerifiablePresentation missing in data model (issue vc-data-model#1431)
{: #section2-14}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1431](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1431)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1431 -->



_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1453](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1453)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1453 -->



**Brent Zundel:** 1431, PR1453 which has approvals and on track to be merged.  
… we're headed toward wrapping this up.  
… so expect to be bothered by us to get the work done...probably weekly.  

### 3. AOB.
{: #section3}

**Brent Zundel:** many folks will be at IETF soon.  
… 2 weeks from now.  

**Ivan Herman:** one warning, day light savings time 3 week nightmare starts next week.  
… it'll always be a mess, because there's no way the US and EU will agree about this one...  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* let your calendar tell you the relevant local time that matters!

---
