---
layout: minutes
date: 2024-01-10
title: Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — 2024-01-10
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2024-01-10-vcwg",
        "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2024-01-10",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2024-01-10",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2024-01-10",
            "endDate": "2024-01-10",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "David Chadwick"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Manu Sporny"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Chris Abernethy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Michael Jones"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Paul Dietrich"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Phillip Long"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kevin-Dean-GS1"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Andres Uribe"
                }
            ]
        },
        "resolution": [
            {
                "@type": "Resolution",
                "resolution_number": 1,
                "resolution_text": "We will publish VC Specs Directories located at [https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/) as a Note as soon as it is ready and we plan to update the Note as needed.."
            },
            {
                "@type": "Resolution",
                "resolution_number": 2,
                "resolution_text": "We will transition Verifiable Credentials Data Model v2.0 located at [https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/) to Candidate Recommendation after either merging or closing PR 1397."
            }
        ]
    }

---

# Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2024-01-10

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ae05a21b-c065-4e69-8d5e-352a0d391513/20240110T110000/) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2024/01/10-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Ted Thibodeau Jr., David Chadwick, Brent Zundel, Chris Abernethy, Manu Sporny, Michael Jones, Dave Longley, Paul Dietrich, Phillip Long, Benjamin Young, Joe Andrieu, Kevin-Dean-GS1, Andres Uribe

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** David Chadwick, Manu Sporny

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Publications
{: #section1}

**Manu Sporny:** need to publish vc specs directory as a note.  
… make it so that any updates are automatically published.  

> *Manu Sporny:* The prepared CR-ready draft for VCDM is here: [https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/).

> *Manu Sporny:* and the corresponding vc-specs-dir is here: [https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/).

**Brent Zundel:** just 2 PRs marked before PR. 

> *David Chadwick:* Any changes to 1397 not merged should not affect the published CR technical content.

> *Kevin-Dean-GS1:* Kevin-Dean-GS1 has joined #vcwg.

**Michael Jones:** waiting for 1404 to be merged before resolving some PRs in JOSE-COSE.  

**Ivan Herman:** diagrams have been updated but waiting for comments from manu.  

**Manu Sporny:** this looks fine.  
… whilst 1404 is editorial selfissued's changes are not.  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** has issues with long media type.  
… image that says the media type has a typo.  

**Michael Jones:** one minus sign should change to a +.  

**Ivan Herman:** I cannot do it today sorry, can someone else?  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** I will do a change suggestion on the PR.  

**Michael Jones:** either I or manu should merge it.  

**Manu Sporny:** I will merge it.  

**Brent Zundel:** after 1397 is merged or closed we will begin the process of moving VCDMv2 to CR.  

#### 1.1. publishing the VC Specs Directories as a WG Note.
{: #section1-1}

**Manu Sporny:** do we need to say that we can update this at any time?  

**David Chadwick:** We said we're going to publish with a date, but then update, what do we do about the date?  

**Ivan Herman:** approval won't happen before next Friday.  
… initial publication date will be 23 Jan 24.  
… (to David) once it is in the system the automatic publication process automatically updates the date.  
… its only the first version that we have to specify a date.  

> **Proposed resolution: We will publish VC Specs Directories located at [https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/) as a Note as soon as it is ready and we plan to update the Note as needed..** *(Brent Zundel)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Manu Sporny:* +1.

> *Dave Longley:* +1.

> *Andres Uribe:* +1.

> *Phillip Long:* +1.

> *Brent Zundel:* +1.

> *Ivan Herman:* +1.

> *David Chadwick:* +1.

> *Chris Abernethy:* +1.

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1.

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* whoops.

> *Benjamin Young:* +1.

> *Paul Dietrich:* +1.

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* +1.

> *Kevin-Dean-GS1:* +1.

> ***Resolution #1: We will publish VC Specs Directories located at [https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/) as a Note as soon as it is ready and we plan to update the Note as needed..***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

**Brent Zundel:** resoved unanimously.  

#### 1.2. Publishing the VCDM as a CR.
{: #section1-2}

> **Proposed resolution: We will transition Verifiable Credentials Data Model v2.0 located at [https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/) to Candidate Recommendation after either merging or closing PR 1397.** *(Brent Zundel)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1.

> *Brent Zundel:* +1.

> *Dave Longley:* +1.

> *David Chadwick:* +1.

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* +1.

> *Manu Sporny:* +1.

> *Chris Abernethy:* +1.

> *Phillip Long:* +1.

> *Benjamin Young:* +1.

> *Paul Dietrich:* +1.

> *Andres Uribe:* +1.

> *Kevin-Dean-GS1:* +1.

> *Michael Jones:* +1.

> ***Resolution #2: We will transition Verifiable Credentials Data Model v2.0 located at [https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/) to Candidate Recommendation after either merging or closing PR 1397.***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

**Brent Zundel:** resolved unanimously.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [Approval request draft](https://github.com/w3c/verifiable-credentials/blob/main/admin/CR-vcdm/Approval_request.md).

**Ivan Herman:** will manu update and cross check the approval request text with the URL I published?  

**Manu Sporny:** yes.  

### 2. VC Spec Directories Volunteers.
{: #section2}

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2024Jan/0010.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2024Jan/0010.html).

**Manu Sporny:** sent out a request for volunteers to maintain registries and got 16 volunteers.  
… 5 are from the general community, rest are not.  
… are explaining work to volunteers to see if they are still interested.  
… we should be able to put 6 volunteers on each registry (DIDs and spec directory).  
… I do not want to share the emails of the volunteer, but will share their linked in pages.  
… if anyone objects to anyone in this list they can notify the group.  

### 3. Bitstring Status List.
{: #section3}

> *Manu Sporny:* PRs for Bitstring Status List -- [https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pulls).

**Brent Zundel:** 20 PRs but majority are almost ready for merging.  

**Manu Sporny:** the plan is to merge them all this weekend.  

#### 3.1. Rename "status" to "message" for `statusPurpose` feature. (pr vc-bitstring-status-list#100)
{: #section3-1}

_See github pull request [vc-bitstring-status-list#100](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pull/100)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/100 -->



**Manu Sporny:** we had 3 status purpose values: revocation, suspension and status.  
… we have changed status to message.  
… we have pre-pended the word status to some of the property names.  

_See github pull request [vc-bitstring-status-list#105](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pull/105)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/105 -->



#### 3.2. Clarify base64 encoding as base64url encoding. (pr vc-bitstring-status-list#110)
{: #section3-2}

_See github pull request [vc-bitstring-status-list#110](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pull/110)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/110 -->



**Manu Sporny:** these affect existing implementations, but not technically difficult.  
… request to change base64 to base64url.  
… but there is no type for base64url yet.  

#### 3.3. Add mechanism to retrieve historical status list information. (pr vc-bitstring-status-list#112)
{: #section3-3}

_See github pull request [vc-bitstring-status-list#112](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pull/112)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/112 -->



**Manu Sporny:** request to retrieve historical status list.  
… so option to add date-time to the request.  
… some discussions about what to do if the issuer does not have the status list at the requested date-time.  
… nobody has implemented this feature yet, so should we fully specify this feature or wait for implementation experience.  

**David Chadwick:** We would like implementer feedback, but we shouldn't have a spec that has multiple options on the reply - that might be confusing to implementers. Select one option for the reply (when you don't have one, we should say you MUST/SHOULD return an error) vs. "it's up to implementers".  

**Manu Sporny:** we can make this change.  

#### 3.4. Add guidance on how to secure status lists. (pr vc-bitstring-status-list#118)
{: #section3-4}

_See github pull request [vc-bitstring-status-list#118](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pull/118)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/118 -->



**Manu Sporny:** we should not mix and match the security mechanisms on the status list and the vcs that it contains.  
… they should all use the same mechanism e.g. JWT or data integrity.  

#### 3.5. Add "at risk" marker noting bitstring format might change in CR. (pr vc-bitstring-status-list#119)
{: #section3-5}

_See github pull request [vc-bitstring-status-list#119](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pull/119)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/119 -->



**Manu Sporny:** adds an at risk marker to the bitstring format.  
… because there is parallel work in the IETF, so we might wish to align.  

> *Brent Zundel:* IETF work [https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-status-list/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-status-list/).

#### 3.6. Rename "herd privacy" to "group privacy". (pr vc-bitstring-status-list#121)
{: #section3-6}

_See github pull request [vc-bitstring-status-list#121](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pull/121)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/121 -->



**Manu Sporny:** renames herd privacy to group privacy.  

#### 3.7. Add at risk issue marker regarding multibit status entries. (pr vc-bitstring-status-list#123)
{: #section3-7}

_See github pull request [vc-bitstring-status-list#123](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pull/123)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/123 -->



**Manu Sporny:** adding an at risk marker to the multiple status list feature.  
… if there are insufficient implementors of this feature it will be removed.  
… we will need a test suite for it as well as implementations.  

> *Chris Abernethy:* I believe we intend to implement it.

#### 3.8. Add formal vocabulary definitions. (pr vc-bitstring-status-list#105)
{: #section3-8}

_See github pull request [vc-bitstring-status-list#105](https://github.com/w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/pull/105)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-bitstring-status-list/105 -->



**Manu Sporny:** what is the vocabulary URL for the status list?  
… several proposals for this.  

> *Manu Sporny:* This could be one of the vocabulary URL prefixes: `https://www.w3.org/ns/credentials/status-list#`.

> *Manu Sporny:* This could be one of the vocabulary URL prefixes: `https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/status#`.

**Manu Sporny:** we need to pick one and go with it.  

> *Manu Sporny:* This could be one of the vocabulary URL prefixes: `https://www.w3.org/ns/credentials/status#`

**Manu Sporny:** but does not align with 2018 existing terms.  
… should there be a date in the terms or not?  

**Brent Zundel:** do we want to have a poll on the name?  

**POLL:** What should the status list vocabulary URL be Choice A) `https://www.w3.org/ns/credentials/status#` and Choice B) `https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/status#` ?  

> *Ivan Herman:* B.

> *Manu Sporny:* A.

> *Andres Uribe:* A.

> *Brent Zundel:* A.

> *Phillip Long:* A.

> *David Chadwick:* B.

> *Paul Dietrich:* A.

> *Joe Andrieu:* B.

> *Kevin-Dean-GS1:* A.

**David Chadwick:** The reason I wanted the date is if you want to change a definition, if you have date in there, change in definition could have a new date. I see how you can append/remove, but changing them is not possible.  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* I don't fully grok the pros and cons. A `ns` vs B `2018` (which is when the original VCWG started).

**Ivan Herman:** There might be a version in the vocabulary, but URL does not change.  

---


### 4. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): We will publish VC Specs Directories located at [https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/NOTE/2024-01-30/) as a Note as soon as it is ready and we plan to update the Note as needed..
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): We will transition Verifiable Credentials Data Model v2.0 located at [https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/CR/2024-01-30/) to Candidate Recommendation after either merging or closing PR 1397.
